---
layout: post
title: "Time"
date: 2018-05-13 08:00:00.000000000 +07:00
author: hendrasaputra
categories: [blog]
tags: [featured]
---
How do we reconcile the complex intersection of faith and science. I wonder if at the end we will be able to know the answers to our questions. Will we be able to face God and ask him to show us how it all began, at least the creation of the universe and how the laws of physics are being laid out.

As I move forward in time, I feel like I will lost parts of my memory. I am having more problem remembering than I ever did. I am afraid, totally afraid. I don’t know whether to tell this to somebody or I should just keep it to myself. I never really open up to anybody, not really. Not since I was little. My wife, Lisa probably is the only one that I shared most of who I really am, besides my mom who totally know me inside and out. But even both of them didn’t know the deep thoughts running through my brain everyday. Sometimes I feel I think too much about things, either philosophically or logically. The inherent desire to question everything.

>If we discover the ultimate nature of time, this will answer many of the most exciting open questions facing physics today. Did time have some sort of beginning before our Big Bang? Will it ultimately end? Did it emerge out of some sort of timeless quantum fuzz into which it will eventually dissolve?

(Source: <a href="http://nautil.us/issue/9/time/life-is-a-braid-in-spacetime" title="Life is a braid in spacetime">nautil.us</a>)

